About this file

This dataset was uploaded to U-BRITE for "AI against CANCER DATA SCIENCE HACKATHON"
https://cancer.ubrite.org/hackathon-2021/


About Dataset

This dataset of breast cancer patients was obtained from the 2017 November update of the SEER Program of the NCI, 
which provides information on population-based cancer statistics. 
The dataset involved female patients with infiltrating duct and 
lobular carcinoma breast cancer (SEER primary cites recode NOS histology codes 8522/3) diagnosed in 2006-2010. 
Patients with unknown tumour size, examined regional LNs, positive regional LNs, and patients 
whose survival months were less than 1 month were excluded; thus, 4024 patients were ultimately included.


Licence: Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) 

Variables:

{'Age' : 'int64',
'Race' : 'category',
'Marital Status' : 'category',
'T Stage' : 'category', 
'N Stage' : 'category',
'6th Stage' : 'category',
'differentiate' : 'category',
'Grade' : 'category',
'A Stage' : 'category', 
'Tumor Size' : 'int64',
'Estrogen Status' : 'category',
'Progesterone Status' : 'category',
'Regional Node Examined' : 'int64',
'Reginol Node Positive' : 'int64',
'Survival Months' : 'int64',
'Status' : 'category'}

T Stage = 
T1: Original tumor diameter is less than or equal to 2 centimeters
T2: Original tumor diameter is between 2 and 5 centimeters
T3: Original tumor diameter is greater than 5 centimeters
T4: Original tumor has invaded other organs, like the chest wall or skin

N Stage = 
N1: Cancer has spread to fewer than 3 lymph nodes located
on the underarm or has spread to any number of lymph nodes 
located near the breastbone (internal mammary lymph nodes)
N2: Cancer has spread to between 4 and 9 lymph nodes of 
the underarm or has enlarged the lymph nodes of the 
internal mammary area
N3 (includes N3a, N3b, and N3c): Cancer has spread to greater 
than 10 lymph nodes of the underarm, cancer has spread to lymph 
nodes under the collarbone, cancer has spread to at least 1 underarm 
lymph node and enlarged breast bone lymph nodes, cancer has spread 
to at least 4 underarm lymph nodes and detected through biopsy to 
have spread to the breast bone lymph nodes, OR cancer has spread 
to lymph nodes above the collarbone on the same side of the body 
as the cancer

6th Stage =  
Stage groups for breast cancer
Doctors assign the stage of the cancer by combining the T, N, and M classifications

'differentiate' and 'Grade' are connected = 
Grade 1: Tumor cells and tissue looks most like healthy cells and tissue. 
These are called well-differentiated tumors and are considered low grade.
Grade 2: The cells and tissue are somewhat abnormal and are called 
moderately differentiated. These are intermediate grade tumors.
Grade 3: Cancer cells and tissue look very abnormal. These cancers are 
considered poorly differentiated, since they no longer have an architectural 
structure or pattern. Grade 3 tumors are considered high grade.
Grade 4: These undifferentiated cancers have the most abnormal looking cells. 
These are the highest grade and typically grow and spread faster than lower grade tumors.

Tumor Size = millimeter

Estrogen Status = 
Created by combining information from Tumor marker 1 
with information from CS site-specific factor 1

Progesterone Status = 
Created by combining information from Tumor marker 2, 
with information from CS site-specific factor 2 

Regional Node Examined = 
Records the total number of regional lymph nodes that 
were removed and examined by the pathologist.

Survival Months = 
Created using complete dates, including days, therefore 
may differ from survival time calculated from year and month only. 

Status = 
Any patient that dies after the follow-up cut-off date is recorded 
to be alive as of the cut-off date.



T Stage : ['T1' 'T2' 'T3' 'T4'], nunique: 4

N Stage: ['N1' 'N2' 'N3'], nunique: 3

6th Stage: ['IIA' 'IIIA' 'IIIC' 'IIB' 'IIIB'], nunique: 5

differentiate: ['Poorly differentiated' 'Moderately differentiated' 'Well differentiated'
 'Undifferentiated'], nunique: 4

Grade: ['3' '2' '1' ' anaplastic; Grade IV'], nunique: 4

A Stage: ['Regional' 'Distant'], nunique: 2
